| ow mre erence | SUS ering on it AB Per thay,
oa: senegal ore A eg tate FF ang
But the cory is sti at rest SINES Te gay it COF

 

 

tra the ce teks 0 esoue

2. 17a fy colides with the wind shield

(1.0.17) (2 Marg
ind the DUS? Why

 

 

ya for tre VAI a Hence the ay
enced sa force a0
(2) 22 me pact tore experienced sa
A (2) Yes. Both the bus and the mnsect ae
Change in ther moment Same ‘

 

Reason :- To every action, there 1s a" #4
TI tow of mation) Fy = Fy ane ate rate
3. Divya obmerved a horse puling a cart. SN@MMOUSTT nig jaw of

rete direction. As per tre cart ratsgy
ineree Sith vomve force in opBests ee apeeretie” OF Oe ara rulaaa

Some questions n her mind. Can you guess wHSt AUC G) (2 Marky)
permnnd?

‘A. The questions that arose in he mind af ivy mish Be
()) Why aid the cart move when the horse Is running
(W)_ Is the third taw of motion false 7

(What physical condition enabled the cart
horse is running.

CONMMNECATION THROUGH DRAWING, MODEL WARING (ASB)
"Take some identical marbles, Make re a ee usr caniacal
srotebooks on ether side so as to make path In
Now use one marble to hit the other marbles. Take two, three mai

What can you explain from your
ee a es nara Me es

A. Law of Conservation of Momentum and Kinetic Eneray.

that cart also pulls ty,

move in the direction in which the

 

 

 

 

APPRECIATION & AESTHETIC SENSE / VALUES (AS6)

 

 

+: How do you appreciate Galileo's thought of “any moving body continues in
the state only until some external force acts on it” which is a contradiction
to the Aristotle's belief of "any moving body naturally comes to rest.”

(7.9.20) (2 Marks)
A. (1) Galileo's observations and his proposition that “Any moving body cotinues i

the state until some external force acts on it” Is true. Otherwise the moveren
of planets around the sun would not have occured,

(2) On the other hand, the motion of objects on the earth under external force
would not have taken piace if this proposition is false.

 

 

SRS. =e Laws of Moti